VOICE: It's Music Time in Africa:

THEME: 15 SECS, UNDER AND OUT:

VOICE: Hello friends, this is Susan Moran welcoming you again to Music Time in Africa -- a program of popular and traditional African music featuring some of Africa's finest musicians and cultural groups of yesterday, today and tomorrow. For today's program I've selected some recordings from our Voice of America music library and from time to time will call our VOA Music Man Leo Sarkisian to share with us some of the fine recordings of his own personal collection. It's Music Time in Africa!

THEME: UNDER AND OUT:

VOICE: Our musical journey today takes us to southwestern Zambia, the home about a hundred thousand people of the Tonga tribe. Little is known of Tonga history before the 1800s, and there seems to be no tradition of migration, and no legends concerning their arrival in what is called Tongaland. An artistic and musical people with many kinds exciting dance music, the Tonga have developed quite a variety of musical instruments. We'll begin the show today with a medley of two Mankuntu dance songs, recorded during actual public performance by a group of men and women. The Mankuntu dance is usually performed with dancers forming a large ring, and then other dancers coming out in pairs, dancing together for a while, going around the ring of dancers for a few steps, doing a rather stiff and formal little dance, and then returning to the crowd, after which another pair of dancers takes their place. The first dance begins with handclapping accompaniments, and then a drum group joins in for the second number:

MUSIC: MANKUNTU DANCE MUSIC:	CUT 1		5:20

VOICE: Mankuntu dance music, of the Tonga people in Zambia. The favorite instrument of the Tonga musicians the one string Kalumbo bow. In this next recording, the volt is a gourd resonator attached to it, and it's played by striking the string with a reed. The tune is a party song composed just for entertainment and fun:

MUSIC: KALUMBO BOW MUSIC:		CUT 2		4:01

VOICE: We have to more party songs here by a group of Tonga men from the Gwembe district of Tongaland, in Zambia. They sing about Anatami -- which means, in the valley-Tonga language, "mid-season". This time falls between May and July, and is the interval between sowing and reaping the winter crops. The second tune in the medley is still a party song, but it hardly guess it from its plaintive title: Nobody Loves Me:

MUSIC:  ANATAMI AND NOBODY LOVES ME:	CUT 3	4:10

VOICE: The Tonga in the Gwembe district have another interesting and unusual instrument they call the new CHIKERE-KERE. This is a four-note xylophone of the loose-note variety, and it's just about as simple arrangement as you can imagine. The four notes are roughly hewn pieces of wood, laid across the lap, and played by means of sticks. In this case, the player stood behind young man on whose lap the notes were lying, and leaned over his shoulders to beat the notes. The man acting as the xylophone sat on a stool, with his feet up on another stool, and standing just under his thighs, below the notes, was a large barrel-shaped resonator. This instrument is played out in the fields, when preparing the winter gardens in May. Once the planning is done, the xylophone notes are gathered up and put to a very practical use -- they're added to the firewood pile, and new notes are cut the following year. The xylophone player in this recording is Timoti Sadimbi, and he brings us a medley of four short seed-planting tunes:

MUSIC: SEED-PLANTING TUNES:		CUT 4		3:00

VOICE: That was a medley for seed-planting time, played on the Chikerekere four-note xylophone of the Tonga tribe. Living on the shores of the great Zambezi River, some of the Tonga built canoes from 20 to 30 feet long. They are called BOWATE, and are made from the Munga tree, which grows to considerable size and girth in the rich soil near the river. In this recording we hear a group of Tonga men singing for the launching of a new canoe. The owner, Kayuni Telo, was standing proudly by while the song was sung:

MUSIC: CANOE LAUNCHING SONG:	CUT 5		2:50

VOICE: Our final selection today, is a recording of the popular GOROROMBE dance of the Tonga. A group of young men and women sing and dance to the accompaniment of an ensemble of four drums, four end-blown flutes, and an assortment of rattles. An interesting thing about this performance is that the player of one of the drums -- the JENJE -- used his right heel to raise and lower the pitch of his instrument -- this can be heard quite clearly in the recording:

MUSIC: GOROROMBE DANCE MUSIC:	CUT 6		6:30

VOICE: Well friends, our time has run out, but I hope you've enjoyed listening to Music Time in Africa. Now this is Susan Moran saying goodbye and inviting you to join me again next Sunday for more traditional and popular African music on Music Time in Africa:

THEME: UP TO TIME: