MUSIC TIME IN AFRICA		OCT 28, 1973		page 1
The following program is Music Time in Africa for broadcast on Sunday Oct. 28, 1973:
FIFTEEN SECS. PAUSE
VOICE: It's Music Time in Africa
THEME: 15 SECS: UNDER AND OUT:
VOICE: Hello friends, welcome back to our Music Time in Africa show. I'm Sue Moran, your hostess and I'm glad you're joining me for the next half hour because today we're featuring the traditional music of the West African Republic of Dahomey. I have a number of excellent recordings here which I've selected from our Voice of America music library with some of the personal collection of Musicman Leo Sarkisian. It's going to be an interesting program so do stay tuned in for the next 30 minutes of Music Time in Africa:
THEME: 10 SECS: UNDER AND OUT:
VOICE: Dahomey, a former French African colony which became independent in 1960, is one of the smallest and most densely populated countries in Africa, -- with a population of close to 3 million people. Even though the population is divided into three major tribal groupings, there are many subgroups -- each with its own language, customs, folklore, music and musical instruments. To start things off today, I've chosen the music of one of the most important peoples in the northern part of the country - the BARIBA. The Bariba music in this first recording which I'm going to play for you now, is a type of music called TEKE -- played specially for ceremonies accompanying the enthroning of a new king. It was recorded in the village of PARAKOU and the musical accompaniment is played on a small armpit pressure drum, the BARA-KARANKOU, and two large bass drums called "GEN":
MUSIC: CUT ONE: 4:45
VOICE: Traditional ceremonial music of the Bariba in northern Dahomey. The Bariba also have a type of folk music called WOUROU and the small musical groups performing this type of music are also known as WOUROU. Each group is usually composed of a flute player, the flute called GOUROU, and several men who play gourd rattles called BOU-AN-ROU. These groups are usually invited to perform in various social events in villages but best known for their music and dances for funeral ceremonies and wakes. This next recording, recorded in the village of TEME in northern Dahomey, was made during funeral ceremonies of a Bariba hunter who had become famous for his bravery and prowess. The musicians playing the gourd rattles usually form a circle and dance at the same time:
MUSIC: CUT 2 3:38
VOICE: The Bariba musician in northern Dahomey, also plays a type of loose-note xylophone that can be found in a number of countries in central, east and south Africa. In northern Dahomey the instrument is usually a four-note xylophone -- the musician sits on the ground with his legs stretched out and lays four pieces of wood across his lap -- he strikes the wooden notes with a small piece of stone in each hand. It's called a "KEN-NOU" and usually played by the men who guard the planted fields from birds and monkeys:
MUSIC: CUT 3: 1:40
VOICE: In the southern part of they country, the popular type of traditional musical entertainment  is the SAKARA orchestra -- much like the SAKARA groups of the Yoruba in neighbouring Nigeria. The Sakara group in this next recording comes from the town of SAKETE, just north of Cotonou, and the dominant drum in the group is the YAYLOO (yah-i-loo), a flat circular single membrane drum with which the musician can produce a variety of pitch and tone by applying pressure on the membrane with his left hand while beating the drum with a stick in his right hand. This drum, much like the YAYLOO of the Yoruba people, is called the talking drum because it can produce the tones and glides in the languages spoken in the southern part of the country. In addition to the YAYLOO drum in this particular group in the recording there is the OMELE, a smaller version of the YAYLOO, and there is also the IGBA, a half shell of a gourd which the musician plays upon with metal rings on his fingers. Another basic instrument of the SAKARA orchestra is the AGIDI-BO -- a large rectangular wooden box that has a round hole on the face of the sound board with five strips of metal attached near the hole and struck with the fingers. It is actually a giant-size MBIRA, the African hand-piano. Frequently one can also find included in the SAKARA groups the GODIE, a one-string violin. Here now is a SAKARA group of NAGO musicians from the town of SAKETE:
MUSIC: CUT 4	3:05
VOICE: That was SAKARA music from southern Dahomey, performed by NAGO musicians recorded in the town of SAKETE. It is known that in the courts of the ancient kings of Abomey, music played a most important role, and one of the pupular types of musical groups was the HAN-YEH, taking its name from the HAN-YEH-GAN, a small metal gong, and the HAN-YEH-HO, gourd rattles usually played by women. This next recording was made in ABOMEY, in southern Dahomey, and its a praise song about the ancient king GHEZO - in praise of his feats as a great warrior:
MUSIC: CUT 5		2:40
VOICE: Our next music comes from the MAHI who live in the SAVALOU region of Dahomey. The Mahi have an interesting type of music known as "CHEN-HOO-KOO-MEN" that is usually head during funeral wakes but frequently used for other occasions. The orchestra consists of the metal gong, the GAN-SOO, a double gong called the GAN-VIK-PAN, straw rattles, ASSANYAN, a whistle made from an animal horn, the KOO-LOO, and two water drums called TOH-HOON. The water drums are half shells of gourds floating in large pans of water, -- different tones are produced depending on how far the drummer sinks the gourd into the water. The drummer beats the top of the gourd with a stick:
MUSIC: CUT 6	3:35
VOICE: We'll wind up today's program of traditional music from the West African Republic of Dahomey with a medley of two songs from the TANEKA people. The first selection is dance music performed following the animal sacrificial ceremonies for the God of harvesting. Musical instruments are two animal-horn trumpets, a double-gong called MO-LOO, and two large double-headed bass drums - GAHN-GAHN-GOO. The last part of the medley is music for planting. During the planting season one can generally hear small musical groups playing in the fields, easing the heavy work of the farmers. The groups usually consist of three transverse flutes called SA-HOORI, with rhythm accompaniment played on the GAHN-GAHN-GOO bass drum and two small metal gongs:
MUSIC: CUT 7		7:50
VOICE: And there goes our time again, friends, bringing to a close today's program of traditional music from the West African Republic of Dahomey. I'll be looking forward to having you join me again next week at this same time - hope you have a pleasant week. This is Sue Moran, now, saying so long friends for Music Time in Africa:
THEME: UP TO TIME: