Music Time in Africa		July 16, 1989			89-20			page one
VOICE: the following program is Music Time in Africa for broadcast on Sunday July 16, 1989 at 17 hours 30 GMT
VOICE: It's Music Time in Africa:
THEME: 10 SECS, UNDER AND OUT:
VOICE: hi, I'm Rita Rochelle and this is Music Time in Africa, today's first edition of our program featuring music by some of Africa's finest musicians and music groups. A very good Sunday evening and, we're happy to be with you again. As you know, my colleague Leo Sarkisian, your VOA musicman for Africa, is the one who selects and prepares all the good music we play on our programs each week. It's in this first edition that we present both popular and traditional music and Leo always manages to start things off on the upbeat side, usually something we're playing for the first time or a record we haven't played for a very long time. Well, this is new, it's by one of West Africa's really gifted and uniquely talented super stars, Miatta Fahnbulleh of Monrovia, Liberia. From her album "just for you," here's track three, a song based on a Liberian folk tune: "Goin' catch crab for my lover to eat:"
MUSIC: CUT ONE: 4:20	music fades at end of cut
VOICE: "Wada wada jay, oh yeah, goin' catch grab for my lover to eat," a delightful Liberian folktune in a beautiful arrangement by Miatta Fahnbulleh, one of West Africa's fascinating female superstars. The recording is from her album "just for you," and I'm sure you'll hear more about Miatta in the near future, right here, on Music Time in Africa:
JINGLE CART #1
VOICE: Music Time in Africa is coming to you on the Africa service of the voice of America and we're broadcasting from Washington, D.C., U.S.A. on the 13, 16, 19, 25, 31, 41 and 49 meter bands shortwave. We're also on mediumwave in southern Africa on 621 kilohertz. Again, I'm Rita Rochelle, your regular Music Time in Africa hostess thanking you for letting us share part of your Sunday evening together. As I mentioned earlier it's in this first edition of our program that we examples of traditional music that our musicman selects and prepares for us each week at this time. We'll begin with a chorus of young voices recorded in Kinshasa, Zaire, during a performance on stage celebrating a local music festival:
MUSIC: CUT TWO: 5:00		come in full/ music fades at end of cut
VOICE: a medley of folksongs by a chorus of young voices from Kinshasa, Zaire,..... Singing that can warm the hearts of those listening, creating moods and bringing joy to our lives... Just another reason why music remains first and foremost among the arts, ...Its power knows no barriers of race, color or creed, and, it's something we all need. More music now, this another recording that Leo made in the interior of Liberia, in the heart of Vai country. Someday ....I'll have to take a little extra time to tell you the fascinating story about Leo's journey to make this recording, paddling a canoe and walking for days in the deep forests, I'm sure you'll enjoy the stories as much as the music, but for now, here's the music that begins with the sounds of the "kongomah," a flat rectangular soundbox with three metal strips plucked with the fingers. Gourd rattles called "sasa," are played by some of the women in the accompanying choral group:
MUSIC: CUT THREE: 2:25		come in full / music fades at end of cut
VOICE: your VOA musicman for Africa, Leo Sarkisian, made that recording the village of mambo in the heart of Vai country in Liberia. The recording features the kongoma, an instrument belonging to the family of thumb-pianos, that is, usable insurance called mbira, likembe, and sanza. Well in this next recording we have another musical instrument that plays an important role… the "silimba" xylophone of the Lozi in Zambia. The silimba in this recording has only nine notes. Six Lozi men from Mongu in the west-central part of the country are singing a topical tune titled: "Fulay sinali meya," meaning "the airplane flies very fast:"
MUSIC: CUT FOUR: 3:00	come in full/ music fades at end of cut
VOICE: that was music of the Lozi of Zambia, featuring the nine-note silimba xylophone. Next is recording from Burkina Faso, West Africa, the music is of the Di-ahn people, one of the many ethnic groups that make up the seven and a half million people in the country. The Diahn are a musical people and noted for their singing:
MUSIC: CUT FIVE: 1:25	come in full/ tag ending
VOICE: the call and response style of singing by a group of Diahn men and women, one of the many ethnic groups in the West African country of Burkina Faso. This last example of traditional music is from the Ivory Coast. The record was made in the central part of the country and features the music of the Baule. Characteristics of Baule music on the sounds of ironbells and small pressure drums.
MUSIC: CUT SIX: 3:15	come in full/ tag ending
VOICE: music of the Baule from the Ivory Coast, West Africa, and reminder now that you're to this Sunday's first edition of Music Time in Africa, coming to you on the Africa service of the voice of America.
JINGLE CART #3
VOICE: special programs broadcast by VOA's africa service our daybreak africa, african panorama, and nightline africa, your programs that keep you in touch with africa and the rest of the world every day, seven days a week, keeping you tuned to VOA means of the latest news about political and economic developments as they take place,… news about what's happening in the world of science and technology, the arts and in the world of sports. And talking about sports, well, here's the right man, Barry Maughn, …. Good evening Barry:
CART #MTA-9	0:40 secs
VOICE: thank you again Barry Maughn and will make sure not to miss sports journal during this week, Monday through Friday, right here on the Africa service of the voice of America.
JINGLE CART #1
VOICE: here's a recording we haven't played for some time and it also happens to feature a talented musician who has been a favorite of ours for a number of years. We like the band he plays with too. From Nigeria, Prince Nico Mbarga and the famous Rokaful Jazz with one of their earlier hit recordings, "Christiana:"
MUSIC: CUT SEVEN:	4:20	come in full
VOICE: Prince Nico and the Rokaful Jazz, and that's it for now, friends. This was our first edition Music Time in Africa for this Sunday evening. The second edition is at 1930 GMT, just one hour and thirty minutes from now so I hope you are planning to stay right there by your radio and I'll be right back here at exactly 1930 GMT. This is Rita Rochelle saying so long for now and thanking you for listening to Music Time in Africa. Coming up next on the voice of America is encounter, a discussion of the issues facing America and the whole world, right after reports of the latest news direct from VOA's newsroom in Washington. Again friends, my love to all of you:
THEME: UP TO TIME:
